---

title: "20 Things Good to Know for PhDs"
sbtitle: "Shared by Lucy A. Taylor in Nature Careers Community"
summary: ""
authors: []
tags: [Daily Talk]
categories: []
date: 2020-07-16
lastmod: 2020-07-16
featured: false
draft: false

---

Have read an useful article -- [Twenty things I wish I’d known when I started my PhD](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-018-07332-x). As a person who always sucks at time management, there are a handful of tips that deserve to be kept in mind. Hereby, I repost a few.

**2.** Discuss expectations with your supervisor. Everyone works 
differently. Make sure you know your needs and communicate them to your 
supervisor early on, so you can work productively together.

**3.** Invest time in literature reviews. These reviews, both *before* 
and *after* data collection, help you to develop your research aims and 
conclusions.

**5.** “I don’t need to write that down, I’ll remember it” is the 
biggest lie you can tell yourself! Write down everything you do — even 
if it doesn’t work. This includes meeting notes, method details, code 
annotations, among other things.

**7.** It’s never too early to start writing your thesis. Write and 
show your work to your supervisor as you go — even if you don’t end up 
using your early work, it’s good practice and a way to get ideas 
organized in your head.

**8.** Break your thesis down into SMART (specific, measurable, 
attainable, relevant and timely) goals. You will be more productive if 
your to-do list reads “draft first paragraph of the results” rather than
 “write chapter 1”. Many small actions lead to one complete thesis.

**9.** The best thesis is a finished thesis. No matter how much time you spend perfecting your first draft, your work will come back covered in corrections, and you will go through more drafts before you submit your final version. Send your drafts to your supervisor sooner rather than later. 

**10.** Be honest with your supervisor. Let them know if you don’t 
understand something, if you’ve messed up an experiment or if they 
forgot to give you feedback. The more honest you are, the better your 
relationship will be. Helping your supervisor to help you is key.

**13.** Attend departmental seminars and lab-group meetings, even (or
 especially) when the topic is not your area of expertise. What you 
learn could change the direction of your research and career. Regular 
attendance will also be noticed.

**14.** Present your research. This can be at lab-group meetings, 
conferences and so on. Presenting can be scary, but it gets easier as 
you practise, and it’s a fantastic way to network and get feedback at 
the same time.

**15.** Aim to publish your research. It might not work out, but 
drafting articles and submitting them to journals is a great way to 
learn new skills and enhance your CV.
