---
# Documentation: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/managing-content/

title: "Musings on PhD Training"
subtitle: ""
summary: ""
authors: []
tags: [Daily Talk]
categories: []
date: 2021-05-17T00:37:41+08:00
lastmod: 2021-05-17T00:37:41+08:00
featured: false
draft: false

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder.
# Focal points: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight.
image:
  caption: ""
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this post with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["internal-project"]` references `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects: []
---

Recently, one of my friends discussed with me about her application for PhD in economics this year. As expected, the 2021 intake has been extremely competitive since the economic downturn worldwide affected by the Covid. However, even without Covid, the admission to PhD programs in economics already tends to get harder and harder year by year because of the supply-demand imbalance. When I was DIY my application in the second half of 2019, I regrated several times that I hadn’t made my application one year earlier, otherwise, my success rate was very likely to be higher. The outbreak of Covid undoubtfully exacerbates the competition. Less funded projects and places in the programs. In fact, around half of my application time was in the shadow of Covid. I fully understand how hard it is. When I was told by my friend that some people who applied for this fall too have decided to postpone their admission and instead, attend a second master program, because of no funding support can be offered this year, I was a bit surprised. I don’t agree that the competition situation will be better in 2022, even though over life could fully return to normal in the coming year. Economic conditions in many countries may have to take at least 3-5 years to recover, the decline of mid-range job opportunities in various countries will continuously push young college graduates to resort to further education. As a result, the PhD application won’t be easier in 2022 than in 2021 and the funding opportunities, considering the growing marginal difficulty, even become slightly better than the present, the overall situation won’t have much change, unless the number of applicants would be significantly less. Think about “economics”, the chance for this to happen is almost 0. Following my worry about their decisions, I turn to think of the future employment we have to face. Based on my observation, PhD’s placements are quite volatile even within the programs. As I am still a first-year PhD student, I don’t know much about the job market, but I understand there are two big things. First and perhaps most straightforward is the university’s reputation. Higher-ranked universities tend to place their students better not merely because the students are on average more capable but are also benefitted from the networking and the credits of the professors there. Another thing is of course the publication or, let’s say, the job market paper. What I am concerned is, as the admission and particularly the funding evaluation tends to be terribly demanding, many applicants will have to target relatively lower-ranked programs and have very limited choices between funded positions. Last year, I also learned that some people were brainstorming between yielding to funding and their research interests. Personally, I were very hopeless if I go to a school that is well below my expectations and find my interests not aligned with the orientation or expertise of the faculty. It sounds akin to directly moving to the industry and compromising to a lower-paid job. In this case, I cannot find any motivation to do the PhD. Why not just work?

Besides my redundant worry and concerns, my friend and I also talked about the PhD training system. Usually, PhD students in the EU are hired as a researcher and integrated into a research groups where the projects are managed. This is the traditional way to train a PhD student here. However, more and more universities are shifting towards structural programs. This is identical to the training system in the US. In the latter case, students would not bond with any research projects at the initial stage and often, they will have an assigned supervisor at the end of the first year. My friend said that she wished to join a structural program because she thought herself not capable to jump in research in the first year. Specialized courses and a systematic review are what she needs to underpin her research abilities. I had the same thoughts just one year before as her. I counted many advantages of structural programs and sent lots of applications, although I become a member of the former. However, now I feel very thankful for this decision. I was quite unconfident as she is regarding whatever my coding skills, econometrics, scientific writing, etc. It is very reasonable for people like me to think that we need more courses and preparation. As we have attended school since our childhood, being a student is the thing we are best at. Even though we are preparing to be a researcher, research is still quite unfamiliar to us. It is a new world. Fear, worry and pressure are common. But (we already have a MSc) does one more course-taught year indeed make sense and can effectively improve our research abilities? If it does, why we didn’t acquire sufficient skills from our last program to be capable of doing research? Our master program is quite research-oriented and many of us have gaps in background, so we passed the exams quite arduously. After we graduation, we do not think we really master what we have been taught. But as we have learned it once, we believe that we can perform much better if we learn it again. This is why my friend and I (used to) prefer a structural program. But guess, if we attend a course in fall 2021 and start a relevant topic in fall 2020, to which extent we will still remember it? Will we need to learn it a third time? Does a perfect mathematical proof done in the exam proves that we are able to apply it practically in our research right away? Will PhD courses offered by a certain program cover all the knowledge we need to know for our research? As far as I think, we can never be allegedly “well-prepared”. We are always short of certain knowledge or skills, but we cannot rely on teaching forever. Recalling that I taught myself over 1/2 of the courses throughout my bachelor and master programs, our urges are rather to identify what are the necessary knowledge and skills that we need for conducting our research lines? It’s not just an advanced microeconomics or econometrics, but something more specific and related. However, you can never know ex ante. A solid foundation is absolutely preferred, but there is no “solid enough”. I believe we already have required knowledge and self-learning abilities, the next turn should be to identify the gaps not only in scholarship but also in our brain. When we find them, self-study and corresponding courses would never be too late, particularly if you find them earlier. I will share my opinions on the traditional PhD system in the next post.
