---
title: "How Research Changes Me?"
sbtitle: ""
summary: ""
authors: []
tags: [Daily Talk]
categories: []
date: 2021-06-22
lastmod: 2021-06-22
featured: false
draft: false


---
I am a lazy person, honestly. I loved playing PC games (since I was 8), chatting online, reading fantasy novels, strolling around the streets and shopping, but seldom had fun with study. Perhaps, study per se is never an enjoyable thing in nature since we have to keep dealing with our ignorance during that process. I am not a good student and none of my teachers had ever said I was. I never studied proactively nor diligently. “Average” is my motto. I never expected that one day, the best life status in my mind would be “keep learning till the death”. I disliked learning, as I said. It is amazing, right? When I look backward and consider what changed me, it might be the first day when I found formulas are not merely numbers and symbols, numbers are not merely mathematics, and mathematics is not merely algorithms. Intuitions behind models enlightened me, despite not immediately, rather gradually and profoundly. I am not a talented guy who can be steadfast from the first day of being exposed to academics. Instead, my experience was quite tough and twisting. From hardly opening my mouth to speak English when I needed to take an IELTS exam to understanding almost nothing in the lecture of Advanced Econometrics, I always instinctively hoped to escape whenever I found myself having to step outside the comfort zone to take on a new challenge. Although I successfully moved on, my inclination to not have another attempt determined that I would never proactively seek opportunities to enrich myself. Obviously, there was a vicious circle – the next time when I had to face a challenge, my preparation was, as always, insufficient to perform well. Then, an unfavorable outcome further undermined my self-confidence until this cycle could be broken.

I have become much more confident over the past year. Again, what changed me? The foremost thing is that on 1st June 2020, I was selected for the Ph.D. fellowship after my long period of application, countless failures, and three rounds of interview for this position, which is actually the first substantial award in my life. Second, I wrote up my first working paper much more independently than my expectation this year. My supervisor mainly helped with data collection and draft revisions, although, of course, he gave my advice on how to revise some variables, the methodology I can try for robustness check in our article, and other miscellaneous aspects. Before I moved to Barcelona and formally kicked off my doctoral studies, I was quite unconfident in whether I could handle the research (I was even worried about if I would be fired if I suck at my research LOL). When my supervisor mentioned that he hoped two of my articles could be aimed at Q1 journals (just target, not have to be publishing), I was shocked because I thought I could only write a roughly Q3 equivalent paper at best. When he saw the shock on my face, he told me that he would co-author with me, so I don’t have to worry. Now, I feel quite good with my research and can be in no doubt a more independent researcher, though I am collaborating with other researchers. Collaboration makes me feel better. We exchange information and, because I am assumed to be the first author as the ongoing work is the second article of my dissertation, my colleagues adapt to my research ideas but propose interesting literature and approaches to help me expand my horizon. Recently, I am fascinated with our research group discussions where I learn and express a lot. Last Sunday, I have made my first presentation at an international conference. I was a bit nervous but looking forward to presenting. I am always worried about my future placement, although I anticipate a large probability of doing a postdoc (in recent years, doing postdoc is more and more common in economics), since the academic job market in economics is so competitive and selective that the majority may not be tenured eventually and while my university is not that prestigious in my field. The only thing that can endorse my research abilities and potentials is probably my job market paper, and publications if any. Because of such strong worries, last year I even asked my supervisor that if I could extend my Ph.D. from three years to four years or at least three and half years. Now I am okay with the original scheme, although I still consider postdoc as the most likely placement to me. But I start to trust that I could be tenured, at least after a few years of postdoc. More boldly speaking, I think the gap in research abilities between some newly employed AP in my sub-field and myself is not so large that I am surely inferior (not now, but two years later I mean). Of course, my target is not really high, so the CVs I paid attention to are not of those who have been placed in top-tier universities. The academic job market might be another big challenge following the Ph.D. application but much more demanding. However, I no longer fear its coming because I am now gradually becoming a person who welcomes new challenges and seeks to step outside my comfort zone. 

All of these processes are new rounds of learning. Just keep working and plan ahead!
